# Chapter 1-1: What is a program?

####  Introduction

So, you decided to learn C++. Great! But before we get to writing code, we first have to understand what a program *actually* is, and how the computer goes from source code to producing an actual executable program. 

*Note: This might seem like a boring topic, but it is a very important one. Try to work through it anyway, even if you can't wait to get started with coding*

#### Source code

The whole process of creating a program of course starts by writing code. A very basic C++ program looks a bit like this:

```cpp
#include <iostream>

int main() {
    std::cout << "Hello World!";
    return 0;
}
```

Don't worry if this doesn't make a lot of sense right now. What's important is that we have source code in the form of a text file, and that we are going to transform it into an executable program. The first step when doing this is the compiler.

#### Meet: The compiler

Very simply said, the compiler is a program that converts source code into an *object file*. We call this process *compiling*. The compiler takes a set of source files as inputs, and outputs a set of object files after running. This is the main stage of your building process. The object files contain machine code that describe how your program runs. After the compiler has generated a bunch of object files, the linker kicks in action.

#### Meet: The linker

The final stage of building an application is *linking*. In this stage, all object files generated by the compiler are linked together to create an executable program on your computer. 



And that's it! In the next lesson, we are going to put this lesson into practice and create our very first C++ program.



